README.md, before:

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

rsketball
=========

\#\#Analysis of NBA players from 2001/02 to 2018/19 seasons

This package is designated for all NBA enthusiasts! This package works
to scrap online tabular data from ESPN NBA website and uses various
functions to create graphs and statistical analysis. These include
boxplots, rankings, and a summary statistics table.  
An example of the 2018/19 player stats can be found in the following
url:

<a href="https://www.espn.com/nba/stats/player/_/season/2019/seasontype/2" class="uri">https://www.espn.com/nba/stats/player/_/season/2019/seasontype/2</a>

Functions
---------

`nba_scraper`

-   Scrapes data from ESPN NBA data into a csv file. User can specify
    the year of the season (2016, 2017, etc) and the season type
    (regular or playoffs).

`nba_boxplot`

-   Creates a boxplot of the categorical variable of interest on the
    y-axis and the stat of interest on the x-axis.

`nba_ranking`

-   Generates a ranking and a visualization based on a column of a
    dataset

`nbastats`

-   Generate summary stats for NBA players. The function filters the
    dataset further using the arguments provided and produces a tibble
    with summary statistics for a list of columns of a few players or
    teams.

R Ecosystem
-----------

This ‘rsketball’ package aims to further gain understanding of ESPN NBA
data and does not have a specific fit to the R ecosystem. There are
currently no similar packages in R.

### Installation

You can install the released version of Rcat from
[CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org/)

Binding two factors via `fbind()`:

``` r
#install.packages("rsketball")
```

And the development version from [Github](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
#install.packages("devtools")
#devtools::install_github("UBC-MDS/rsketball")
```

Commit message:

EDIT README to list revised function names and description

README.md, after:

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

rsketball
=========

\#\#Analysis of NBA players from 2001/02 to 2018/19 seasons

This package is designated for all NBA enthusiasts! This package works
to scrap online tabular data from ESPN NBA website and uses various
functions to create graphs and statistical analysis. These include
boxplots, rankings, and a summary statistics table.  
An example of the 2018/19 player stats can be found in the following
url:

<a href="https://www.espn.com/nba/stats/player/_/season/2019/seasontype/2" class="uri">https://www.espn.com/nba/stats/player/_/season/2019/seasontype/2</a>

Functions
---------

`nba_scraper`

-   Scrapes data from ESPN NBA data into a csv file. User can specify
    the year of the season (2016, 2017, etc) and the season type
    (regular or playoffs).

`nba_boxplot`

-   Creates a boxplot of the categorical variable of interest on the
    y-axis and the stat of interest on the x-axis.

`nba_ranking`

-   Generates a ranking and a visualization based on a column of a
    dataset

`nba_team_stats`

-   Generate summary stats for NBA players. The function provides
    descriptive (mean, median, 25%, and 75% quantiles) team statistics
    of NBA data.

R Ecosystem
-----------

This ‘rsketball’ package aims to further gain understanding of ESPN NBA
data and does not have a specific fit to the R ecosystem. There are
currently no similar packages in R.

### Installation

You can install the released version of Rcat from
[CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org/)

Binding two factors via `fbind()`:

``` r
#install.packages("rsketball")
```

And the development version from [Github](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
#install.packages("devtools")
#devtools::install_github("UBC-MDS/rsketball")
```
